okay hi would you ever want want to or
be willing to do an informational type
of interview on stream we've talked a
bit about your history and how you got
to your point as a psychiatrist but I
and probably other people have several
questions on what led you to your path
why the medical field why psychiatrist /
psychologist thoughts on psychotherapy
versus medication what factors do you
think led you to being accepted to
medical school
um yeah so I can talk about that now so
it sounds like people are interested in
my bio in my background
what led me to my path so I'll start
and there are a couple of so the
question is what led me to my path why
the medical field why a psychiatrist / a
psychologist thoughts on psychotherapy
versus medication what factors led you
to think that you think led you to being
accepted into Medical School so let's
start with
oh okay let's just start with with the
first question okay so how did I get
here so I think my journey starts with
playing a bunch of video actually I mean
if you guys really want to get into it I
think my journey starts with playing
video games because I was a year ahead
so I went to this like very like small
school that had a very high teacher to
student ratio
and so in the span of being like in in
that school for two years I basically
like skipped a grade and so then what
happened as I entered the first grade is
like a five year old and a six year old
I guess a second grade is a six year old
or something with that I was one year
younger than than all of my classmates
and so the first thing that happened is
I sucked at sports because I was like a
five-year-old competing against
six-year-olds if you think about that
like a five-year-old is just not gonna
compete on any level with six-year-olds
and so I think that you know what what
happened is like I started off being bad
at sports and then I gravitated towards
video games because like in video games
I could be just as good as my colleagues
and the reason that I was I started to
believe I was bad at sports and I was
unathletic but the truth was just I was
just a year younger so there's no way
that a five-year-old is gonna be able to
run as fast as a six year old six year
olds ROP absolutely correct unless
you're a six year old competing against
seven year olds
and then so I started playing a lot of
video games and then like started sort
of become directionless fall behind had
a bunch of ego and stuff like that in
high school and then basically was
failing out of college and then ended up
going to India at the age of 21 because
my life was going nowhere I had like
less than a 2.0 GPA was failing all that
good stuff
and when I was in India like discovered
yoga and meditation and really loved it
so I loved that like so we study stuff
right like we study mathematics and we
study science and we study neuroscience
and we study economics and sociology and
psychology and we formally like sit down
and say like I can get mastery over this
field of the world if I sit down and
systematically learn
what I found with like yoga and
meditation and Ayurveda was a system to
understand myself in like a methodical
way then I can sit down and study Who I
am and how I work as a person and then I
can get better at like being me and I
love that like I I found answers to so
many questions like everything that
we're talking about on stream like these
urges that we have like I feel like
cleaning more after I clean like how
does that work there is a principle
under which that works like why you feel
like claiming cleaning why you feel the
shame why you want to ask someone out
why you can't ask someone out why you
play video games why you can't stop
playing video games why you can't like
start writing a 10 page paper why you
can't start approach reading a really
long text book this is all random crap
but there's a system to understand how
all of it works right this is the system
of understanding a human being which is
literally what yoga is
Yoga is about understanding eat not like
Asin which is what they do at yoga
studios but true yoga in its original
like form in its truest form which
didn't really get translated over to the
West didn't really cross the pond mostly
stayed in India it's about understanding
how human being works because there are
laws and principles that govern your
physiology or neuroscience psychology
right and so then like getting back to
my life so I was like okay this is
really cool that I'm learning all this
stuff from a yoga perspective but I'm a
skeptic by nature and I like references
so I'm gonna understand the sign so I
became a researcher as I started to have
like experiences in meditation that were
super trippy and like really cool I was
like what the f is going on in my brain
during these times like I have a brain
like how does that work so I started off
doing EEG studies on meditators so this
is measuring the electrical activity in
the brain
during meditation I was like that's
pretty cool I like that and then I
started doing neuroscience research I
did that for a couple of years and then
I decided that like I wasn't gonna
become a monk because I met my wife fell
in love et cetera and so I was like well
I have to do something so what do I want
to do
and I decided to become a doctor for a
couple of reasons the truest reason I
became a doctor is because my one of my
teachers told me that unless you can
succeed in in material in the material
world you're not gonna succeed in the
spiritual because anything you do in the
material world is gonna be way easier
than what you do in the spiritual world
because the real world is like like for
noobs and the spiritual world is for
experts pros go to the spiritual world
that's what he told so it's like okay
it I'm gonna just set a goal for
myself and was kind of arbitrary to be
completely honest it was really somewhat
arbitrary I was like I'm gonna become a
doctor just because it's hard because
it's hard and I have a 2.5 GPA but so
that seems impossible so I'm gonna do
that because if I can do that then I'm
gonna succeed in meditation that's
that's literally how it worked and there
were a couple of other factors so one
was that I didn't while I loved kind of
psychology in the mind I didn't so I
read that doesn't de Voort like doesn't
separate different fields of medicine
like they don't think that you don't
have a psychiatrist and a cardiologist
you have one person who does everything
and the reason that they do everything
they specialize more in terms of methods
but not like organs
and so what I what I liked about like so
I just didn't believe that like you can
understand the mind without
understanding the body and that's why I
decided to become a psychiatrist instead
of a psychologist sort of it's kind of
like it's not quite like that because
the order of operations was a little bit
different but that's why I like becoming
a medical doctor and I didn't shift
gears because I wanted to understand the
body as well as the mind and and I know
that psychologists don't get a lot of
bodily training and I know that that's
kind of how our system works but I think
a lot of emerging evidence around like
brain got stuff clearly demonstrates
that there's a link between the body and
the mind and I ultimately the end of the
day I feel like if you don't understand
the body you're depriving yourself of a
lot of tools to help them on
I just a fact it doesn't mean that
psychologists aren't good at what they
do it doesn't mean that they can't do a
wonderful job it's just in my opinion I
wanted to understand it all
like I like understanding spirituality I
like understanding neuroscience I like
understanding everything I don't like
understanding just one part of something
like that feels incomplete to me so it's
fine to have a trippy experience in
meditation what's it doing to my brain I
want to know that neuroscientific I want
to understand how things work that's why
I decided to become a psychiatrist sort
of when I went to medical school it was
still sort of this idea of like okay I'm
just gonna like set a target and it's
gonna be kind of arbitrary so I actually
decided to become a oncologist first and
a switch to psychiatry in my fourth year
how do we fix brain gut stuff we'll talk
um so I decided to become a psychiatrist
actually in my fourth year because I
realized that like actually I don't know
why I didn't realize this sooner but I
actually really liked the mind and
that's always been what's interested in
me so I decided to do psychiatry um but
I you know I some thoughts that
psychiatrists aren't real doctors and
all that good stuff because like my dad
was an oncologist and I sort of
idealized him and things like that and
like I wanted to be a real doctor
does I still had a lot of ego right so I
wanted to be someone that saves lives
and like treats heart attacks and like
I'm gonna cure cancer I'm gonna be a
surgeon I was like debating becoming a
trauma surgeon for a little while and
was like leaning towards oncology
because I wanted to be like a holistic
cancer doctor use like herbs treat
cancer and then like teach them yoga and
teach them how to meditate and like help
them become what connected with their
spirituality before they died and like
all this good stuff
and so that's kind of how I became a
psychiatrist